# Perspectives

## Week 1 - The Living God is a Missionary God
2022-08-19

### Article Name
**author**
- Takeaways
- Takeaways
- Takeaways

### Article Name
**author**
- Takeaways
- Takeaways
- Takeaways



## Week 2 - The Story of His Glory
2022-08-26

### The Story of His Glory
**Steven C. Hawthorne**
- The name of God is categorized into His name-tag names, window name, and His fame name. These correspond to the reference, revelation, and reputation of God.
- *The heart of missions flows in this amazing economy of glory: God reveals His glory to all nations in order to receive glory from all creation.* (50)
- *He never needs the worship gifts. But the gift brings the giver.🔥* (51) 
- *He loves people so vastly that He wills to exalt them to something better than [greatness](meekness,greatness); He wants to bring them into an honored nearness to Him.* (52)
- Abraham wasn't a model missionary. He got kicked out Egypt and judged places he passed by (Genesis 20:11). However, the one thing he did right was establish ongoing public worship of God.
- God displayed His glory through the plagues in Egypt—to the point that Jethro, a Gentile who married into Moses' family, had heard of Israel's great exodus.
- Idolatry profanes God's name. God's objective for the conquest of Canaan was first to repay their wickedness and second, primarily, to remove everything that hindered pure worship to God alone. Reminds me of A.W. Tozer's quote from *Knowledge of the Holy*:
>Among the sins to which the human heart is prone, hardly any other is more hateful to God than idolatry, for idolatry is at bottom a libel on His character.
- *Jesus knew that in God's ways, volunteering is of little value. Anything of lasting power comes from an authentic "sending" of God. Compassion flows like rivers from one who is truly sent. ==Mission efforts which draw their motivation from compassionate response to human predicament will only go so far. Guilt-based appeals to care for hurting or lost people continue to soften our hearts a little.== In practice, however, they weary and harden believers to a minimal token obedience. Costly and difficult work needs to be done. Such labor cannot be sustained by the fleeting, momentary zeal generated by appeals for desperate, perishing souls. God's global prupose is an ancient affair, far more than an urgenty need. ==Now more than ever believers need to be nurtured into a far-reaching jealousy for God's glory.==* (61)
- *But our goal must not be reduced to approaching peoples merely to "impact" them as "targets." We must aim beyond the gospel encounter. We must aim to see obedient worship result for God which may be distinctive to that particular people.* (62)
- The doxological approach settles the false dichotomy drawn from the balancing between saving souls and healing communities. God gets glory from gospel declaration and kind deeds. The gospel's impact on entire communities, tranforming the lives within them, definitely glorifies God.


### Let the Nation Be Glad!
**John Piper**
- *Missions exists because worship doesn't*. (64) 
- God obeys the greatest commandment since He delights in His own glory with all his heart, mind, soul, and strength.
- *Missions is the overflow of our delight in God because missions is the overflow of God's delight in being God.* (65)
- God is completely unique from other gods. He delights in serving His people and showing His might by showing mercy. Other gods must be served and show their glory by enslaving others.
- *A God who cannot be served is a God who can only be enjoyed.* (66)
- *I emphasize again that the motive of compassion and the motive of zeal for the glory of God are separate. God-centered compassion (which is the only kind that cares for people eternally) weeps over the misery of people who reject God's glory and drink the cup of his wrath. But this weeping is not because of the loss of Christian joy. If that were true, unbelievers could blackmail the saints and hold their happiness hostage for eternity. No, the weeping of the saints at the loss of precious souls is, paradoxically, the weeping of joy in God. ==And the reason joy can weep is because it longs to be extended and expanded into the lives of others who are perishing.== Therefore, the weeping of compassion is the weeping of joy impeded in the extension of itself to another.* (69)


### Beyond Duty ⭐
**Tim Dearborn**
- *Mission ultimately not a human response to human need. The Church's involvement in mission is its priviledged participation in the actions of the triune God.* (70)
- ==*Lack of interest in mission is not fundamentally caused by an absence of compassion or commitment, nor by a lack of information or exhortation. And lack of interest in mission is not remedied by more shocking statistics, more gruesome stories or more emotionally manipulative commands to obedience. It is best remedied by intensifying people's passion for Christ, so that the passions of his heart become the passions that propel our hearts.*== (70)
	- If that quote is all I got from this course, it was well worth it. Let I not be someone who saw unbelievers' great need for missions; rather, I have a great need for Christ and a great Christ for my need.
- Christ, not mission itself, ought to have the first place in the Church's life.
- Rather than proclaiming "the Church of God has a mission in the world", the reality is "the God of mission has a Church in the world." The Church doesn't write God's story; she gets caught up in the story God is already writing in the world.
- Oftentimes, efforts to provoke missions interest focuses primarily on the bad news (world poverty, unreached people groups, martyrdom) when the Christian faith is inherently based on *good news*.
- The rhetorical usage of statistics explaining the world's needs evokes an exhausted response form genuine church members. Their compassion and kindess compels them to do more and be more, so they embark on missions out of a sense of duty. This cycle produces exhausted servants.
- something to chew on—*Missions it not ultimately our response to great need.* (71)
- from P.T. Forsyth: ==*The weakness of much curret mission work is that \[we\] betray the sense that what is yet to be done is greater than what \[Christ\] has already done. The world's gravest need is less than Christ's great victory.*== (72)
- When we neglect God's total confidence from His victory on the cross, we begin to see missions as a mandate that is left for us to complete by ourselves. No, mission is a privilege.



## Week 3 - Your Kingdom Come
2022-09-03

### The Gospel of the Kingdom:
**George Eldon Ladd**
- Luke 19:11-12 illustrates the definition of kingdom as one of authority. The nobleman went into a far country not to receive land. He went to receive authority.
- The Kingdom of God is His kingship, His rule, His authority.
- The Bible's definition of mystery is a divine purpose now disclosed that was once kept secret.
- The Old Testament's view of the coming of God's kingdom was usually seen as a single great event.

### Prayer: Rebelling Against the Status Quo:
**David Wells**
- The nature of petitionary prayer lies in the refusal to accept reality outside how God intended creation. It expresses the hope that God can change things. 
- *The wrath of God is thus intimately connected with petitionary prayer that also seeks the triumph of truth and the banishment of Evil.* (162)


### Jesus and the Gentiles
**H. Cornell Goerner**
- Malachi is the source of prophetic literature that outlined the role of John the Baptist and Jesus Christ. Chapter 3 says there will be a messenger who will prepare the way and that the Lord himself is the messenger of the covenant. In chapter 4, God says He will send the prophet Elijah before the end—which Jesus confirmed was John the Baptist in Matthew 11 and 17.
- From the beginning, Jesus had a vision for a universal kingdom. It explains why Satan tempted Jesus with giving him all the kingdoms of the world. Luke 4:25-26 also refers to a story from 1 Kings 17 where Elijah ministered to a Gentile widow.
- The 70 disciples sent out in Luke 10 represent symbolize the Gentile nations. Genesis 10 listed Noah's descendants 70 in number.


### A Violent Reaction to Mercy
**Patrick Johnstone**

- In Luke 4, Jesus preached out of Isaiah 61 and concluded he had fulfilled this prophecy. However, he ended the reading mid-sentence and omitted the words, "and the day of vengeance of our God." This stirred anger in the Jewish people because the expressed vengeance on the Gentiles was not expressed. Jesus even followed up with examples God's servants ministering to Gentiles in the Old Testament. He made clear that was not going to wreak havoc on the Gentiles—he intends to save them.



## Week 4 - Mandate for the Nations
2022-09-07

### A Man for All Peoples
**Don Richardson**
- Jesus was astonished the Roman centurion because even with his military background of authority, he still submitted to Jesus as a higher authority. Jesus noted that a Gentile had greater faith than anyone else he found in Israel.


### The Supremacy of Christ
**Ajith Fernando**
- John 14:6-7 teaches us that *absolute truth can be known because the Absolute has become concrete in history in the person of Jesus.* (184)
- *We have lost the abhorrence for sin found throughout the Bible. Yet, in both the Old and New Testaments, wrath is part of the essential nature of God.* (188)


### Lost
**Robertson McQuilkin**
- Universalism teaches that none will finallly be lost. None will go to hell since God is "good." Those who held to this original position happened to also be Unitarians who also rejected the Scriptures as the highest authority
- New Universalism was Trinitarian but claimed that all will ultimately be saved out of God's provision. This undermines the call to preach the Gospel and undermines the mission Christ gave to His disciples. Jesus taught a reality where an eternal hell exists and where many were on the broad road to destruction.
- "Wider Hope" followers agree not all will be saved but those who have never heard of Christ will be saved because God is just and will not condemn sincere truth-seekers. However, placing sincerity as what grants avoidance of condemnation rejects basic reality. McQuilkin uses an architect designing a building as an example. Though the whole team constructing the building was sincere, its destruction proves sincerety does not atone for error.
- The "New Wider Hope" followers believe all will be given a chance to believe in the gospel at or after death. This demonizes the preaching of the gospel as it makes it seem we hastening their condemnation when in fact they can be saved after they die.
- Luke 10:8-16; 12:47-48, Matthew 13:10-16, and Mark 4:21-25 echo a principle that God's judgement is based on a person's response to the truth he has received. Romans 1:18-21 shows that every person has received adequate light to which they can respond to. To the obedient, additional light is given.


## Week 5 - Unleashing the Gospel
2022-09-13

### Acts of Obedience
**Steven C. Hawthorne**
- People believe the disciples were not imminently obeying the Great Commission since they were told to stay in Jerusalem in Acts chapter 1. However, when we learn they were actually from Galilee, we see Jesus'  
- *Their shame brought Christ's glory.* (139)


### The Wall and the Canyon
**Steven C. Hawthorne**
- The Wall: barrier of understanding and communicating the gospel of salvation. Challenge of claerly communicating the gospel to people groups.
- The Canyon: barrier of conversion and heartfelt repetance in accepting the gospel message from people groups. Challenge to see the gospel be received by people groups (not seeker sensitive; prevent unneccesary cultural suicide).
- *It is not enough for someone to hear the gospel or to understand it. People must be able to see, for themselves and their people, the radical freshness, the heavenly power and the hope-filled relevance of the gospel.* (141)


### The Turning Point
**M.R. Thomas**
- Acts 11:19 shows that early Jewish converts still thought the Gospel was excluded for the Jews. However verse 20 shows a significant shift in their witnessing as they were now preaching the same gospel message to the Greeks.
- The purity and mobility of the gospel was at stake during the debate with the Acts 15 council. Enforcing Gentiles to obey Jewish customs to follow Christ posed a great hindrance to the gospel of faith. The apostles’ response prevented Christianity from becoming another “splinter-sect” of Judaism for this simple reason: following Christ did not require becoming Jewish culturally. It is by faith alone we are saved.
- *The first century disciples had to sort out the universal glory of Jesus from the cultural patterns of Judaism before they could obey the Great Commission and take the gospel to all nations... We, too, must be ready to celebrate the ways that Christ is obeyed fully, but differently, amidst the diverse cultures of the nations. Only then will the gospel continue to go forward "unhindered" (Acts 28:31).* (145)


### Become Like, Remain Like
**Harley Talman**
- 1 Corinthians 9:19-22 and 1 Corinthians 7:17-20 establish Paul's principle for missionaries to "become like" and "remain like" those they are preaching the gospel to.
- After analyzing 1 Corithians 7:17-20, we see that the call to "remain in that situation in life in which he was called" expands beyond martial status. It includes someone's religious, social, and cultural identity.
- *We become like so they remain like.* (148)
- from **A New Creation** by David Anthony: *It's a new creation in an old environment.* (148)


### Discovering the Holy Spirit's Work in a Community
**T. Wayne Dye**
- A mistake missionaries may make is correcting sins in a local community that God was yet convicting them about. We can be impatient with the obvious sins we perceive and convince them to follow us rather than hear God's voice for themselves.
- *Christian action separated from the context of local understanding of right and wrong prevents the Holy Spirit from developing the new believers' ability to hear and obey His voice.* (495)
- Wagu Village: they sought out the Scriptures themselves to determine which how they should act, which ceremonies to discontinue, etc. They saw no Scriptures condemning polygamy but made a rule that no one can take a second wife if there was existed a single man. This rule actually reduced adultery and promiscuity in their community over time. Polygamy ceased to exist as previous generations died off.

### Apostolic Passion ⭐
**Floyd McClung**
- Passion is whatever a person willing to suffer for. It comes from the Latin word *paserre* which means "to suffer."
- Apostolic passion is an intentional choice to commit your life unto death for the worship of Jesus in the nations. 
- *Apostolic passion is dead in my heart when I dream more about sports, toys, places to go and people to see, than I do about the nations worshiping Jesus.* (204)
- 🔥*If you will not suffer and sacrifice for something, you are not passionate about it. If you say you will do anything for Jesus, but you don't suffer for Him—then you aren't really passionate about Him and His purposes on earth.* (204)
- There is a story of a young Bible school student approaching David Wilkerson offering to help him in his street evangelism ministry. Upon hearing he only spent 20 minutes a day in prayer, Wilkerson sent him home saying, "Go back, young man. Go back for a month and pray two hours a day, every day for 30 days. When you've done that, come back. Come back, and I might consider turning you loose on the streets where there is murder, rape, violence, and danger... If I sent you out now on 20 minutes a day, I'd be sending a soldier into battle without any weapons, and you would get killed."
- *Only those who long to broadcast His glory to the nations have the right to stay.* (206)


### The Apostle Paul and the Missionary Task
**Arthur F. Glasser**
- The local house church and the mobile missionary band both have the same right to be called the "church." 
- Takeaways
- Takeaways