##### What I learned:
1. *Yet the inclusion of individual lament psalms in the Psalter implies that these personal expressions were valued and used by the wider community of Israel—that they were communicative. In fact, even now they continue to resonate with believers who face overwhelming situations. 🔥The laments, even while expressing anger and despair, are set in the context of a stance of trust; they are, after all, addressed to God. They assume the presence of God, even while mourning God's apparent absence. Because of their faith stance, they speak beyond the psalmist's particular self expression to communicate passionately and powerfully with hearers and readers.* (150)
1. Since we are so familiar with the epistle genre, due to our daily interaction with emails and letters, we can be lulled into a complacent reading of the Epistles. There tends to be more sermons on Paul than on the Gospels or the OT in non-liturgical evangelical settings.
1. Brown uses the example of sending an introductory email of a seminary course she'll be teaching. It's quite lengthy to cut out any need for inference or implications. Paul and other NT letter writers assumed a lot from their readers since they were picking up their communication in relational midstream.
2. *The one part of the form of ancient letters we are not used to is a thanksgiving section that was typically included. This section might be rather extensive or simply a prayer for the recipient's good health. Paul, in fact, usually extends the expected thanksgiving section, so that it is quite developed. Knowing these conventions helps us feel the effect of his omission of a thanksgiving in his letter to the Galatians. Paul moves directly from his greeting to the body of the letter "I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel" ([1:6](Galatians1#v.6) NRSV). The omission, which may not seem so significant to modern readers, would almost certainly have been felt by the Galatian Christians.* (151)
3. *The truth is that we always provide a social context for what we read; we do so automatically.* (152)
4. An example of automatically providing social context is reading Paul's exhortations about Communion in [1 Corinthians 11:17-34](1Cor11). If we think they did Communion by passing a small grape juice cap and cracker, we will have read the text with our own setting mind. In reality, ancient Corinth conducted Communion as a full meal.
5. *We can also potentially overconstruct the situation, a procedure that has been called "mirror reading." Mirror reading is the determination that each command or argument of a letter is tied to a specific problem being experienced by the audience of the letter.* (154)
6. An example is how early reconstructionist dated 1 Peter to a time under Nero's reign due to the phrase "fiery ordeal" in 4:12. This term does not necessitate literal fire and concluding the epistle's written date from such slim evidence would be an example of mirror reading.
7. Matthew groups together a number of miracles together in chapters 8-9, which are sequenced differently in Mark/Luke to emphasize Jesus' authority over sickness, nature, and sin to fulfill Israel's hope for resurrection.
8. 


