# Pages 120-130
##### What I learned:
1. *What we see when we think we are looking into the depths of Scripture may sometimes be only the reflection of our own silly faces.* - C.S. Lewis (120)
2. Presupposition - any preconception that is part of our thinking as we come to interpret the Bible.
3. "\[Presuppositions\] can enable creative and penetrating insight... \[yet\] the same commitments may also lead to eisegesis, selective blindness, and dubious ranking of \[textual\] elements as central or peripheral." (123)
	1. Tuner, "Theological Hermeneutics," 57-58. As you may hear, the word "eisegesis" is related to "exegesis." While exegesis is a "drawing out" of the author's meaning, eisegesis refers to imparting one's own meaning into the text.	   
4. *Presuppositions "gone bad" are what Osborne refers to as **prejudices**. A prejudice is the denigration of a presupposition into an "a priori grid" that then predetermines what the text can or cannot mean. A prejudice, by definition, does not budge even when presented with powerful textual evidence to the contrary. Instead, a prejudice forces the text into alignment with its own position.* (123)
5. 🔥*Trying to discover our presuppositions can be rather like trying to see our own blind spots—very difficult without outside assistance. The Spirit's work in our lives, the influence of the larger Christian community, and the Scriptures themselves when read with a submissive spirit are central correctives to our potential prejudices.* (123)
6. *The reader's misreading is not a part of the text's meaning.* (124)
7. Reading the Bible is a cross-cultural experience and inextricably has an "otherness" to it.
8. 🔥*If we are routinely experiencing the Bible as "nonthreatening platitudes" rather than a wake-up call to new ways of thinking, being, and doing, we are probably not reading well.* (125)
9. *The Bible is meta-cognitive in scope. So our reading of it should allow for the entire range of responses it envisions for readers, cognitive and otherwise. To read only for the cognitive knowledge we can get from the Bible diminishes its value and purposes. Part of allowing Scripture to shape us is submitting to it not only with our minds but also with our affections and our actions. Only in this way will we truly and personally know.* (128)
10. *There is no one-to-one correspondence between personal piety and correct interpretation, although this conviction is sometimes used as a trump card for interpretive correctness ("I prayed and God told me that this passage means...").* (128)
11. We should seek to become the "implied reader", someone who embodies every right response to the author's communicative intention.