# Pages 110-120
##### What I learned:
1. \*Particularly helpful is the observation that, by citing a brief part of another text or even alluding to it, an author may be evoking the entire context, message, or story of that other text. One example is the recognition that an important way the Gospel writers communicate the fulfillment of Israel's promised restoration in Jesus is by evoking Isaiah's "new exodus" motif (e.g. Matt. 1-2; Mark 1:1-3)… this way of evoking whole stories and ideas by means of allusion makes much sense of how we understand New Testament writers using Old Testament texts.* (110)
1. Terms
	1. Locution - a saying/utterance
	2. Illocution - what the saying does
	3. Perlocution - response of a hearer
2. EXAMPLE:
	1. I call out to Libby, "Watch out for the geese!" (locution)
	2. The illocutionary act is an act of warning and want to elicit a certain response from Libby (perlocution).
	3. If Libby **understands** my warning, my illocution is successful.
	4. If Libby move away from the geese, my perlocutionary intention will have been successful.
3. *In the end, how are these distinctions important for interpreting the Bible? They are important because, as is so often the case, the writers of Scripture have perlocutionary intentions for their audience beyond understanding what is communicated. Biblical authors certainly want to be understood when they warn and exhort and plead and praise. Yet they also have intentions for their audience that go beyond simply understanding what they are saying and doing with their words. The authors have as extensions of their communicative intentions the shaping of their audience to respond in certain ways. They warn so that their audience will be deterred from harm; they exhort so that their audience will follow the paths they set forth; they praise God—and implicitly invite their audience into of God with them.* (114)
4. sensus plenior - the "fuller sense" of the text in later contexts.
5. "applicational elephants... from interpretive threads."


