#### Pages 200-210
##### What I learned:
1. *Be ready to hear presuppositions quite different from your own as you read. Whenever you read something that strikes you as odd, assume that the idea in question actually makes sense within the worldview of the writer.* (200)
1. One ancient author may hold a viewpoint not shared widely by everyone else. At Qumran, they expected two Messianic figures (Messiah of Israel and Messiah of Aaron) but most first century Jews didn't think so.
2. A Bible Atlas can help us learn that Amos is from the southern kingdom of Judah who prophecies against places in the northern kingdom of Israel. This explains why in 7:12 Amos to treated as an outsider.
3. Cautions:
	1. Underconstructing the Setting
		1. We need to know the literary context of Amos to understand Amos 4:4 as ironic since Israel's worship was not pleasing to God due to their unjust treatment of one another.
	2. Overconstructing the Setting
	3. Overgeneralizing about the Social Context
		1. Anytime we assert "All Israelites though or did this" or "All first-century people believed this" we overgeneralize.
		2. "All Pharisees were legalists" is another example of overgeneralization.
4. *As we look at the Old Testament, we see that the Torah was never intended to provide a way for Israel to earn God's approval (one aspect of the popular definition of legalism). God gave the law so that Israel would know how to live in the covenant relationship God had already established with them through Abraham and reaffirmed in their redemption from Egypt. Law was understood within the context of covenant. First-century Judaism was no more prone to legalism than any other religion, including twenty-first century Christianity!* (208)
5. Pharisees were like Bible camp counselors who gave the famous pep-talk on the last night to urge campers to not lose the fire when they return home from camp.
6. The point of contention between Jesus and the Pharisees is over the interpretation of the law—not legalism. Matthew 23:23 demonstrates Jesus directing the Pharisees to heed weightier matters of the Torah without neglecting the rest of the law.
7. 



