# Pages 80-90
##### What I learned:
1. The basis of the Great Commission is rooted in the authority of Jesus through his presence with his followers, a major stress in Matthew since it begins and ends with this theme ([1:23](Matthew1#v.23); [28:20](Matthew28#v.18-20)). (86)
1. Where the author places certain verses affects its meaning. The culmination of Matthew is 28:17-20 where the readers hear how the now eleven disciples still struggled to trust Jesus and grasp who he truly is. Matthew describes the disciples with "little faith" five times.  (86)
1. *Determinacy means that interpretations can be weighed on the basis of their alignment and coherence with an author's communicative intention. It means that, in interpretative theory, we can describe and explore the limits of meaning (we can affirm its bounded nature).* (87)
2. *Each time we return to the text we are different: we ask different questions, we bring different issues, we arrive at different insights. Our contextualizing of the text occurs between the textual world and our world, and this interaction helps to explain our experience of flux in relation to meaning.* (88)
3. Although we cannot access meaning perfectly, we should still try to reach for it. Some may argue that truth is relative since no human can know truth in any objective fashion. Others who claim the existence of objective truth also posit the existence of objective knowledge—meaning we can view truth from an objective vantage point. To avoid extremes, we *clearly distinguish between objective truth or reality and the always-subjective human appropriation of truth* (89).