##### What I learned:
1.  John may be using ambiguous wordplay in [John 1:5](John1#v.5) when he says the darkness has not **katalambanó** it. It can be translated as either "understood" or "overcome." In 12:35, darkness overcomes the light but misunderstanding is a  Johannine motif (8:27). (92)
2. In John 3, he plays on the word **anóthen** which can mean either "from above" or "again." Jesus says a person must be born from above (3:3; confirmed at 3:12-13), while Nicodemus misunderstands and gets preoccupied by the literal notion of being born again (3:4). (93)
3. There is a probably wordplay on **zōn** when Jesus offers "living water" but the Samaritan woman may have misheard as "running water." (93)
4. We need to be aware of our cultural gaps from the Bible when we approach the text. Most ascribe Jonah's running away from God's call to cowardice. However this does not come from the text—only the fear of God is mentioned in [1:9](Jonah1#v.9). His real reason is made apparent when understanding the social world of his day. Jonah, an Israelite, flees God's command to preach at the capital city of Israel's archenemy out of hatred of his enemies as well as knowing God would show mercy if they repented. (93-94)
5. Most of us in the West tend to individualistically read [1 Corinthians 3:16](1Cor3#v.16) hearing the singular "you" when Paul says "Do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?" (NASB). What's surprising is that Paul is referring to the corporate church as God's temple and dwelling place for God's Spirit—clearly indicated from his usage of the second-person plural form ("you") in the Greek. (94)
6. *In my reading, Paul's central concern in 1 Corinthians 8 is the Corinthian's participation in idolatry as they join in temple feasts. 🔥The root problem is idolatry, specifically, attempting to affirm one's allegiance to the one true God, while playing at the edges of idolatrous practice, when the call of God is to exclusive allegiance🔥. This normative stance seems quite transferable to my cultural context, since today's contemporary church struggles with compromised allegiance, as did the Corinthian church, although not in relation to temple feasts. For instance, the siren song of materialism woos us from wholehearted allegiance to God toward placing possessions, money, and comfort at the center of our existence. The normative song of resistance to idolatrous temptations resonates well in this different key.* (96)