# Terms

## APOCALYPTIC LITERATURE 
"Apocalyptic” is the name that has traditionally been given to a particular category (genre) of literature. Apocalyptic is defined by its characteristics. It has some traceable roots outside the Bible (see the sidebar on Akkadian apocalypses in Dan 11) but finds its earliest true members in Old Testament books such as Daniel and Zechariah. In the Bible it is intricately intertwined with prophetic literature. There are over a dozen Jewish apocalyptic works during the intertestamental period, the most prominent being 4 Ezra and the books of Enoch. The book of Revelation is the New Testament’s contribution to the genre. Other Christian apocalypses began to appear on the heels of the New Testament, including works like the Shepherd of Hermas, the Apocalypse of Peter and the Ascension of Isaiah. The genre was a favorite of the Gnostics, whose literature contains numerous examples. Apocalypses feature a narrative framework and often portray an angelic interpreter or guide alongside the prophet. The angel may take the prophet on a tour of heavenly realms to convey certain realities and activities. Alternatively, he may unveil a future time of trouble and deliverance. This literature operates by means of a broad spectrum of symbols using significant numbers and mythological images. It draws heavily on both biblical and extrabiblical literature. It tends to schematize. When reading apocalyptic, there are a couple of important guidelines to keep in mind. First, each detail does not necessarily carry symbolic significance. Even the details that do carry symbolic significance may not be transparent to us and speculating accomplishes little. Second, it is important to remember that the apocalyptic vision is not the message itself but rather is the vehicle or occasion for the message. So, for instance, the message of the first vision of Zechariah (1:7-17) is not that there are going to be four horses of different colors in a myrtle grove. The message is laid out very clearly in verses 14-17. Apocalyptic is simply a medium.
#johnwalton 



